# Let‚Äôs Talk About Bitcoin Nodes

Due to the decentralized nature of Bitcoin, sometimes key terms or definitions
may unintentionally be misconstrued by members of the community. This is
particularly problematic for those who want to learn about Bitcoin because they
may get confused by variant vocabulary. For example, a Full Bitcoin Node to one
person may mean something slightly different to another. In light of this, I
propose a list of terms below to help the community unify the language in
regards to Bitcoin Nodes.

### **A Node**

Before we talk about Bitcoin Nodes, let‚Äôs talk about nodes broadly within the
context of a distributed network model. In a distributed network, the simplest
way to define a node would be to say it is a point of intersection or connection
with the network. It can act as both a redistribution point or a communication
endpoint. This loose definition helps us better understand the different ways a
Bitcoin Node functions within the Bitcoin Network. The following suggested
definitions should all collectively be considered as Bitcoin Nodes.

### **A Full Node**

A Full Bitcoin Node is an integral component of the Bitcoin Network because it
validates the blockchain. It does this by downloading a copy of it. It is also
capable of relaying transactions and recent blocks, but this isn‚Äôt required to
be considered a Full Node. Now when you first open up a Full Node client like
Bitcoin Core, most people are sitting behind a firewall. In this case, your Full
Node is limited in the number of connections it can connect to (around 8) and
only looks for Super Nodes a.k.a. Listening Nodes. The reason for this is
because your Full Node isn‚Äôt publicly connectable yet.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/0*LsHqVCkJbid_xOqj.)

### **A Super Node a.k.a. Listening Node**

In a distributed network, a Super Node functions as a highly connected
redistribution point as well as a relay station. Therefore this would be an
appropriate term to describe a publicly connectable Full Bitcoin Node. This
means many nodes can connect to it to obtain relayed transactional data and
blockchain history. This may require more bandwidth and CPU than a Full Node
because of all the extra work it‚Äôs doing. These Super Nodes are normally on 24/7
and are reliable focal points for other nodes to connect to. In order to
activate this within a Bitcoin client functioning as a node, you must make it
publicly connectable. One way to do this is to bypass any potential firewalls
and/or setup port forwarding. Some manuals suggest running bitcoind(bitcoin
daemon) in the background instead of Bitcoin-Qt, but this isn‚Äôt necessary.

### **A Miner‚Äôs Node**

Today, miners utilize mining programs separate from Bitcoin Core to mine Bitcoin
blocks. Some miners choose to solo mine and therefore use their own Full Node to
maintain a full copy of the blockchain via bitcoind. Others choose to pool mine
and work together to solve blocks. In this case, the admin of the pool maintains
a Full Node while pool miners contribute their hashpower. A third method, though
highly discouraged and harmful to the network, is to SPV mine by mining on top
of blocks before fully validating them. These SPV pool miners typically trust
another mining pool‚Äôs Full Node as a reference to build on top of. In light of
this, a Miner‚Äôs Node can be further subcategorized as either a Solo Miner‚Äôs Full
Node or a Pool Miner‚Äôs Full Node.

### **A Simplified Payment Verification(SPV) Client a.k.a. Light Wallets**

SPV clients like Breadwallet (the Bitcoin App for smartphones) are not Full
Nodes because they don‚Äôt download the blockchain. SPV clients do this by
ensuring your transactions are put in a block and then confirm that other blocks
are being added to it. Therefore in the loosest sense, an SPV Client may fit the
criteria of a node. However, they don‚Äôt do much to support and validate the
distributed trustless ledger of Bitcoin. Instead, they store just copies of all
the headers of all the blocks in the blockchain that are taken from other Super
Nodes. Therefore, SPV clients are unable to verify any transactions in the chain
because they don‚Äôt have access to it. In this way, they function as
communication endpoints as they are are unable to relay transactions or
blockchain data. Additionally, it is important to put your own full nodes behind
them to securely use SPV clients as wallets.

### Conclusion

Above, I‚Äôve briefly described the various roles a Bitcoin Node can have. I‚Äôve
also hinted at the necessary steps a user would need to take in order to
function in those roles. Hopefully by utilizing this list of terminology,
Bitcoin users will be empowered to understand what exact role they are playing
on the Bitcoin Network and be informed of the steps they can take if they want
to perform a different one.

**Special thanks to Luke-Jr. for reviewing this article.*

*****

### Remember to give me claps to the left, donations below, and share with your
friends! Until next time, onwards and upwards. üòÅ

*****

**Donation Addresses**BTC: 35LfSm2eUPCeiP5ZZCGwMX7SCCFzk7JQYG<br> LTC:
LPz923H556f8g8mWnsuHQhvudRD7CCqyhF

* [Bitcoin](https://hackernoon.com/tagged/bitcoin?source=post)
* [Node](https://hackernoon.com/tagged/node?source=post)
* [Bitcoin Node](https://hackernoon.com/tagged/bitcoin-node?source=post)
* [Cryptocurrency](https://hackernoon.com/tagged/cryptocurrency?source=post)
* [Blockchain](https://hackernoon.com/tagged/blockchain?source=post)

By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.

### [ecurrencyhodler](https://hackernoon.com/@ecurrencyhodler)

Call me ‚ÄúE‚Äù for short. I write on upcoming cryptotrends. Follow me:
[@ecurrencyhodler](http://twitter.com/ecurrencyhodler)
[@theliteschool](http://twitter.com/theliteschool)
[www.theliteschool.com](http://www.theliteschool.com/)
[https://www.binance.com/?ref=22782506](https://www.binance.com/?ref=22782506)

### [Hacker Noon](https://hackernoon.com/?source=footer_card)

how hackers start their afternoons.

How do you see the case of BCH Bitcoin Cash that has virtual nodes ?

I‚Äôm personally not a fan of it because it means the full node network is very
centralized.

*source* https://hackernoon.com/lets-talk-about-bitcoin-nodes-e9502193198c
