
# Anonymous Bitcoin

## [Privacy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy) is a fundamental human right.
[Fungibility](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fungibility) is an essential
property of good money. [Anonymity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anonymity) is
just another word for that.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*DWfeG-TcidGEtmVJ.)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Awesome CoinPedia Art</span>

As of February 2018, the path to anonymous Bitcoin is finally clear. While
strong anonymity in itself was already achievable, no strategies could achieve
it in a convenient and economical way. During 2017, new research and techniques
were invented those pave the path to both convenient and cheap anonymity. **Even
better: it is just a matter of time that we get to the point, where anonymous
transactions will be more economical, than transparent ones.**

### Two Dimension Of Anonymity

Companies dedicated to deanonymize Bitcoin users apply two strategies:

* Network Analysis
* Blockchain Analysis

### Network Analysis

#### Private Transaction Broadcasting

Broadcasting transactions in a private way is tricky. Today a privacy conscious
developer can choose to utilize an anonymity network, like
[Tor](https://www.torproject.org/). In January, 2017
[Dandelion](https://github.com/gfanti/bips/blob/master/bip-dandelion.mediawiki)**
**was introduced, it eliminates the anonymity network dependency by implementing
a private transaction broadcasting mechanism.

> Flagship Project: Dandelion

#### Private Transaction Retrieval

You need to know how much money you have. For that, you must ask someone. But if
you ask someone how much money you have, he will also know how much money you
have. Well then, ask him over Tor, problem solved, right? No.<br> Your wallet
has many Bitcoin addresses, and if you ask someone “hey how much money do I have
in these addresses?” then the third party you are asking will know those
addresses belong to the same person.

It seems like the only way to avoid address linking is to run your own full
node. Your node downloads all the transactions ever happened on the Bitcoin
network, then calculates balances locally. Since you ask for all the
transactions, nobody knows, which ones you are interested in.

However running a **full node** is anything, but convenient. You must wait a few
days or weeks in order to synchronize the blockchain and start using your
wallet. So why not start syncing from the creation of your wallet, then? And the
idea of **full-SPV wallet** was born. Projects implementing this are: [Jonas
Schnelli’s Bitcoin Core PR](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9483)**,
**[Stratis: Breeze Wallet](https://github.com/stratisproject/Breeze)** **and my
[HiddenWallet](https://github.com/nopara73/HiddenWallet). However, this is still
far from convenient, let alone mobile friendly. If you don’t turn on this wallet
for a week, then you must download 1008 blocks, which is 1–4 GB of data, before
you can start using it.

It is worth pointing out that there was another bandwagon, invented in 2012:
[BIP37: Bloom filtering SPV
wallets](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0037.mediawiki). These
were designed to provide privacy for light wallets, but [it turned out to be a
privacy
nightmare](https://jonasnick.github.io/blog/2015/02/12/privacy-in-bitcoinj/).

In June of 2017, Lightning Labs researchers came to rescue: [BIP Proposal:
Compact Client Side Filtering for Light
Clients](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2017-June/014474.html).
They also provide an implementation, called:
[Neutrino](https://github.com/lightninglabs/neutrino). I know, there is a lot of
nonsense terminology here, but let me demystify it to you: Every full node also
maintains a small index table, which they serve to light clients. After light
clients acquired it, they can now figure out which blocks they have transactions
in. Finally they ask for the few blocks they care about from full nodes and go
on with their life.<br> Today I am working on implementing this approach into
HiddenWallet.

> Flagship Projects: Client Side Filtering, Neutrino, HiddenWallet

### Blockchain Analysis

In 2013, [Gregory Maxwell introduced
CoinJoin](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=279249.0). When multiple
participants add inputs and outputs to a common transaction, it obfuscates the
transaction graph. A stronger variant is if everyone registers with the same
amount of money into the CoinJoin. This way no one can tell which input is
intended to fund which output.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*jkGeovSipKETzIn3yieZKQ.png)

Such technique was briefly described by Maxwell in the same thread, called:
[Chaumian CoinJoin](https://github.com/nopara73/ZeroLink/#ii-chaumian-coinjoin).
In 2014, another, similar technique was proposed:
[CoinShuffle](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=567625.0), which went
through an iteration in 2015:
[CoinShuffle++](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1497271.0). These
techniques are round based. Meaning: if you have 8 bitcoins and the denomination
of a CoinJoin round is 1 bitcoin, then you must participate in 8 rounds. Ergo
you are paying transaction fees 8 times. So what if you have 0.9 bitcoin? You
are not lucky. But it gets worse. If the blockchain observer starts looking at
transaction chains, then it can deanonymize the CoinJoin users, therefore we
need to have a dedicated wallet with a privacy conscious coin control in place.

To tackle all these edge cases, in 2017, I designed and implemented
[ZeroLink](https://github.com/nopara73/ZeroLink/), where I also worked out
Maxwell’s Chaumian CoinJoin idea.

> Flagship Projects: CoinJoin, CoinShuffle, ZeroLink

But let us not get lost in the details, and rather recognize, **dealing with all
this complexity would be unnecessary, if we would not have to care about the
transaction amounts. Transaction amounts are the root of all evil in privacy
technologies.**

Here comes [Confidential
Transactions](https://people.xiph.org/~greg/confidential_values.txt)! CT solves
exactly this. It replaces the output values with Pedersen commitments. The
problem is, these commitments are huge and the bigger your transaction is the
more you have to pay for it. For this reason CT was unlikely to ever to be seen
in Bitcoin and even if it would’ve get into it, some kind of hybrid half CT,
half CoinShuffle/ZeroLink model would’ve needed to be done in order to keep the
fees in bay.

But then something happened. In November, 2017
[Bulletproofs](https://web.stanford.edu/~buenz/pubs/bulletproofs.pdf) were
introduced, which is an improvement on CT. It makes the commitment sizes
smaller. Instead of huge, now they are only big. More importantly, if you want
to have many CT outputs in a transaction, then your transaction size does not
grow linearly with the number of outputs, which is great for CoinJoin, where the
number of outputs can reach high numbers. Numbers, where the cost of CT becomes
insignificant. Participating in this CoinJoin would result in similar
transaction fees, as the user would send a normal transaction!

As a takeaway CT can be easily added to CoinShuffle and ZeroLink. It does not
only simplifies these systems, but also dissolves many restrictions they have on
their users. A CT compatible CoinShuffle is called: **ValueShuffle**.

> Flagship Projects: Confidential Transactions, Bulletproofs, ValueShuffle

But it gets better! There is another technology coming to Bitcoin: [Schnorr
Signatures](https://medium.com/@SDWouters/why-schnorr-signatures-will-help-solve-2-of-bitcoins-biggest-problems-today-9b7718e7861c).<br>
Today when a CoinJoin transaction has 100 inputs, then it must also hold 100
signatures. With Schnorr, we can do it with only one signature. This will make
CoinJoin transactions about 30–40% cheaper than normal transactions.

> Flagship Project: Schnorr Signatures

### Conclusion

What did we achieve here? Making a CoinJoin mixing transaction with a high
anonymity set becomes about 30% cheaper than making a transparent, traditional
Bitcoin transaction.

### Meta Update

After a few months ago I delayed the release of HiddenWallet I started working
on its stability. I refactored its [Tor
library](https://github.com/nopara73/DotNetTor) and I also worked out my own
networking protocol, I called it [Tor Over
TCP](https://github.com/nopara73/TorOverTcp), but I cannot seem to get this one
right, so it may be a bandwagon. In the meantime I did my long due research on
Client Side Filtering, which you can read in this article and it became clear to
me, this is clearly the right approach. Although Matthew slowly faded away, a
week ago [Lucas Ontivero](https://twitter.com/lontivero) joined me to the
development. He is the second most frequent contributor to the NBitcoin library,
so I am very excited to work with him. We started designing our own client side
filtering wallet. This will definitely get into HiddenWallet before the next
release. It’s a huge improvement and saves a lot of developer time, too. We
created a new GitHub repository to work on the prototype, we called it
[MagicalCryptoWallet](https://github.com/nopara73/MagicalCryptoWallet), because
it sounds funny and the naming is not important. We will merge this into
HiddenWallet as soon as we are there.

*Anyway, consider feeding us with a pizza. Or better: with a protein shake, I’m
on a diet now*.

<span class="figcaption_hack">[186n7me3QKajQZJnUsVsezVhVrSwyFCCZ](https://www.smartbit.com.au/address/186n7me3QKajQZJnUsVsezVhVrSwyFCCZ)*
(*[Accountability](https://github.com/nopara73/HiddenWallet/blob/master/HiddenWallet.Documentation/DonationsSpentOn.md)*)*</span>

* [Bitcoin](https://medium.com/tag/bitcoin?source=post)

By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.

### [nopara73](https://medium.com/@nopara73)

Chief Redditor of TumbleBit. Creator of HiddenWallet. I love pizza:
186n7me3QKajQZJnUsVsezVhVrSwyFCCZ

Why not segwit address for donations man ?

I use Core for this. Core is not bech32 segwit ready. And I don’t want to change
donation address twice.

*source:* https://medium.com/@nopara73/anonymous-bitcoin-1fae5d1e33b7

Follow the author and support him for his amazing job!
