# ZeroLink: Massive Scale CoinJoin Is About To Be Deployed - Participate In The
Final Test And Earn $10

**Update: The testing is over. **[Click here to see the
results.](https://medium.com/@nopara73/zerolink-test-aftermath-best-anonymity-set-successfully-achieved-26-general-evaluation-2763fe735c30)

A while ago I decided to improve privacy and fungibility in Bitcoin. I created a
Bitcoin wallet, called it
[HiddenWallet](https://github.com/nopara73/HiddenWallet/), that protects its
users from [network
analysis](https://jonasnick.github.io/blog/2015/02/12/privacy-in-bitcoinj/). I
worked on
[TumbleBit](https://hackernoon.com/understanding-tumblebit-part-1-making-the-case-823d786113f3),
a Bitcoin mixer, that protects its users from **blockchain analysis**.<br> While
integrating this technology into HiddenWallet, [I
recognized](https://medium.com/@nopara73/tumblebit-vs-coinjoin-15e5a7d58e3) with
CoinJoin we may be able to achieve the same trustless tumbling, but faster and
cheaper. So I dropped my half ready integration and came up with [Chaumian
CoinJoin](https://github.com/nopara73/ZeroLink/#ii-chaumian-coinjoin). However,
coin mixing does not automatically provide untraceability. Even if network level
tracks are completely eliminated, examining transaction chains and other
transaction metadata, attackers may still be able to recognize some patterns. So
I created [ZeroLink](https://github.com/nopara73/ZeroLink/) to systematically
tackle these potential information leaks. **ZeroLink is an end-to-end privacy
solution.** Nothing is out of its scope. **Thus, ZeroLink will enable the fully
anonymous usage of Bitcoin, for the first time.**

### We need you!

During the past months, with [Matthew
Haywood](https://medium.com/@wintercooled), we successfully built a prototype,
integrated it into HiddenWallet and we are preparing for our final test on the
Bitcoin test network, where **we would like you to take part**.<br> Anonymity
likes company, you cannot be anonymous by yourself. On the Internet, you must
hide in a crowd. Consequently, we are not comfortable releasing our software on
Bitcoin, if we cannot achieve sufficient anonymity set on the Bitcoin test
network first, with real people.

**Passive participation. **We have to coordinate the test to happen in a
specific time. However, you do not have to be present, you can start tumbling
right now and let it run, wait for your peers to join to the mix. **The mixing
round will kick off, if either of these conditions are fulfilled:**

* **100 users joined to the mix.**
* **Dec. 20 (Wednesday), 10 PM London time passed AND at least 21 users joined to
the mix.**

*Convenience note: Dec. 20 (Wednesday), 10 PM London is 5 PM in New York, 2 PM
in San Francisco and Dec. 21 (Thursday) 6 AM in Taipei.*

> [Click here for step by step guide to
> participation…](https://github.com/nopara73/HiddenWallet/blob/master/HiddenWallet.Documentation/TestingTheZeroLinkMixer.md)

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*szBwzPic2_KXdyJN.)

### Success Criteria For Mainnet Release

**If at least one CoinJoin transaction is published to the Bitcoin test network
with at least 100 anonymity set, we will release it on the main network. **<br>
If the test fails, or under 21 users start tumbling, therefore the CoinJoin will
not happen, because the minimum anonymity set is not hit, we will not release it
on the mainnet.

If the anonymity set is between 21 and 100, we will reconsider releasing it on
the mainnet.

### Why release an unstable version on the mainnet?

Unstable does not mean every part of the code is unstable. There are robust
parts, too. For example, nor coin or privacy loss due to software error will
happen. These parts are well tested. For example, in case of mixing, the
software will not sign the CoinJoin transaction, if it does not see its desired
output between the outputs of the CoinJoin. This process is risk free.

Furthermore, anonymous Bitcoin is too important to sit on it for years.

### Claiming Participation For $10

**Note.** I will not touch the donations I got so far, I am not sure every one
of my donors would agree, this is the best way to spend it on. Yet, as you may
have noticed, I am fully invested emotionally in this project, therefore I will
pay you guys out from my own pocket. However, unlike many of you, I am not a
Bitcoin millionaire, I spent most of my time [contributing to open source
projects](https://github.com/nopara73/), which do not pay. Thus, I would like to
kindly ask you, if $10 is nothing for you, consider not claiming it.

**Process of claiming the $10.** After the mix, you send me an email to
adam.ficsor73@gmail.com. This email must contain your Bitcoin address and a
transaction hex.<br> Obtain this transaction hex from HiddenWallet by building a
transaction with a mixed coin and clicking on “Copy Transaction Hex” button.
However, do not broadcast it to the network, instead cancel it out. If you would
broadcast it, then anyone would be able to claim your money from me.

Of course this also means, if I miscalculated something and the test is not
successful, I am not able to verify you indeed took part in the mix.

### Contribution

If you are thinking about contributing to the project, but cannot decide between
joining the mix and sending a pizza, please consider choosing the former one.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*Qk_xWE4PCbuat89L.)
<span class="figcaption_hack">[186n7me3QKajQZJnUsVsezVhVrSwyFCCZ](https://www.smartbit.com.au/address/186n7me3QKajQZJnUsVsezVhVrSwyFCCZ)*
(*[Accountability](https://github.com/nopara73/HiddenWallet/blob/master/HiddenWallet.Documentation/DonationsSpentOn.md)*)*</span>

source: https://medium.com/@nopara73/zerolink-massive-scale-coinjoin-is-about-to-be-deployed-participate-in-the-final-test-and-earn-6225939d15fb 
