# Learn to Code: 13 Tips that Could Save You Years of Effort

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*ucMd7l6fXggw2PZ2g1KTCg.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Hard at Work — Louish Pixel (CC-BY-NC-ND-2.0)</span>

When you’re new to coding, it can be hard to know where to start, and it’s easy
to get sucked down paths that could waste a whole lot of your time and money.

I’m Eric Elliott, author of “Programming JavaScript Applications” (O’Reilly),
development team leader, JavaScript instructor, and public speaker. I teach and
hire JavaScript developers. I know both sides of the market very well. Here are
some of my favorite tips for aspiring coders:

1.  [Forget university
programs](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/want-to-code-a-university-degree-might-be-a-huge-waste-of-time-81e1817a2ef0)**.**
Unless it’s from Stanford or MIT, your degree will mean a lot less than having
some apps to show off. In fact, most **university programs struggle to keep up**
with changing technology. A degree will buy you a few thousand dollars more
**for the first 1–3 years**. After that it makes exactly **zero difference**.
Unless you like flushing time and money down the toilet…
1.  [Start with
JavaScript](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/learn-javascript-b631a4af11f2)**.**
JavaScript is the most popular programming language in the world. It’s the
**standard language of the web platform**, and it’s very commonly used to code
mobile apps, too. You can even program robots, drones, and games with
JavaScript.
1.  **Score a quick win right now.** Confidence holds coding students back more than
anything else. Get a boost by starting with something easy. Code.org has [Star
Wars](https://code.org/starwars) and [Minecraft](https://code.org/mc) hour of
code curriculum designed for kids. Even if you’re an adult, it’s a great way to
prove to yourself that you can do it.
1.  **The best way to learn how to code is to code.** Lots of students start by
reading books. It’s OK to go that route — that’s how I learned to code when I
was just getting started, but if you really want to get off on the right foot,
start out with some exercises. [FreeCodeCamp’s 10-hour basic JavaScript
track](https://www.freecodecamp.com/map#nested-collapseBasicJavaScript) will
give you a good opportunity to stretch your wings.
1.  **Learn by example. **One of the best ways to score major breakthroughs is to
*watch somebody else code,* and pick up on how they think about problems. Find a
study buddy and try some pair programming. I recently started a new show called
[“Shotgun with Eric
Elliott”](https://ericelliottjs.com/product/shotgun-with-eric-elliott-a-javascript-video-experience/)
— a video screencast show that lets you ride shotgun while I build real apps. I
talk you through what I’m thinking with every step, and drop a lot of knowledge
for you to pick up along the way. I’m journaling each episode on [this
blog](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/shotgun-javascript-video-experience-c8b6a7771d49).
1.  **Read Blogs.** I may be biased, but [JavaScript
Scene](https://medium.com/javascript-scene) is a great blog to subscribe to. I’m
a fan of [2ality](http://www.2ality.com/) as well — a great way to stay on top
of what’s coming next in the JavaScript specification.
1.  **Try a Bootcamp. **If you can afford to attend school full time, forget
university programs (see point 1). Try a bootcamp, instead. Bootcamps are great
if you need to feel really invested (commonly $10k — $25k), and you need to be
accountable to somebody other than yourself. I’ve hired bootcamp grads who had
zero experience before the bootcamp. They did a great job with a little guidance
from the experienced team members. *Beware of bootcamps that only offer 3-month
(12-week) programs. You need at least twice as much study & practice to be
job-ready.*
1.  **Learn Online.** If you don’t have the money for a bootcamp, or you’re a more
self-motivated, self-directed type, try online training. [“Learn JavaScript with
Eric Elliott”](http://ericelliottjs.com/product/lifetime-access-pass/) picks up
where the introductory training you’ll find many other places leaves off. A
great stepping stone from entry level to senior level jobs.
1.  [Find a Strong
Mentor](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/what-s-better-than-a-college-degree-mentorship-e22de630601a)**.**
Graduating from a bootcamp or online course is just step one in your learning
journey. At the pace this industry changes, you’ll never stop learning. You
should always have a strong mentor to learn from. You don’t have to know them
in-person in order to learn from them. It can be somebody you follow online.
1.  **Find a Meetup or Study Group.** Meetups are a great way to find mentors, study
buddies, and new friends, regardless of your current skill level. And there’s
often free pizza involved. Check out
[Meetup.com](http://www.meetup.com/find/?allMeetups=false&keywords=javascript&radius=5).
1.  **Mix it up.** Video lessons are great, but you need to practice to learn.
Exercises are great, but typically only drill very specific concepts and leave
out great coding wisdom you could learn from a video guide. In-person is great,
but tends to lack structure. Books are great, but most readers don’t get enough
practice from books. Whatever you’re doing, mix it up once in a while. Try to
learn from more than one medium.
1.  **Build a Portfolio.** No matter how you learn, if you want to code for a
career, you’ll want to start building a portfolio of your projects. [Open a
GitHub account](https://github.com/) and post your projects there so that
potential employers can see your work. Check out the [GitHub
Guides](https://guides.github.com/) to get started.
1.  **Learn more than one language.** I strongly recommend you read [“Seven
Languages in Seven
Weeks.”](http://www.amazon.com/Seven-Languages-Weeks-Programming-Programmers/dp/193435659X/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&linkCode=ll1&tag=eejs-20&linkId=ecffd9338648dbd4d0b19fc400671348)
I’ve coded in Basic, Assembly Language, Pascal, Delphi, C/C++, Java, Lisp, and
JavaScript — to name a few. Learning different languages with different
philosophies will teach you different ways to think about the same problems.
Expand your mind, expand your creativity. But give yourself a solid year to
focus on JavaScript before you branch out. Don’t spread yourself too thin.

Don’t stop there. Read this next: [“10 Priceless Resources for JavaScript
Learners”](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/10-priceless-resources-for-javascript-learners-bbf2f7d7f84e).

*****

### [Learn JavaScript with Eric
Elliott](https://ericelliottjs.com/product/lifetime-access-pass/)

*****

**Eric Elliott*** is the author of *[“Programming JavaScript
Applications”](http://pjabook.com/)* (O’Reilly), and *[“Learn Universal
JavaScript App Development with Node &
React”](https://leanpub.com/learn-javascript-react-nodejs-es6/)*. He has
contributed to software experiences for ***Adobe Systems***, ***Zumba
Fitness***, ***The Wall Street Journal***, ***ESPN***, ***BBC***, and top
recording artists including ***Usher***, ***Frank Ocean***, ***Metallica***, and
many more.*

*He spends most of his time in the San Francisco Bay Area with the most
beautiful woman in the world.*

EDIT / PS:

If you can find a *good* university program and it will cost you little or no
money, by all means, take advantage of that. My anti-university rant is mostly
about universities in the US who will happily eat up **hundreds of thousands of
dollars in tuition money that you will never earn back on the job.**

* [Coding](https://medium.com/tag/coding?source=post)
* [JavaScript](https://medium.com/tag/javascript?source=post)
* [Learnjs](https://medium.com/tag/learnjs?source=post)

By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.

### [Eric Elliott](https://medium.com/@_ericelliott)

Compassionate entrepreneur on a mission to end homelessness.

### [JavaScript Scene](https://medium.com/javascript-scene?source=footer_card)

To submit, DM your proposal to
[@JS_Cheerleader](https://medium.com/@JS_Cheerleader) on Twitter

I thought that University gives you a solid basis on algorithms,data structures
, etc. fundamentals principles in software engineering. Also most tech interview
require you to solve problems using those.

Brutal University CS curriculum rant incoming…

Yes, university CS **does give you a solid foundation of algorithms, data
structures, and computer science fundamentals**. I would not argue that at all,
and I do believe that some of that knowledge is valuable. Theoretically great,
right?

You may want to add: read code from great programmers and significant projects
on github.

“Forget University programs”: wow, kind of unilateral and absolutist for
something as wide and far-reaching as “learn how to code”, don’t you think?

Getting an entry-level web developer job in the currently booming market is one
thing; but do you really think that there’s nothing to be had from anything more
in-depth than a…

Sure, this is all true, but a university program happens to be **a really bad
deal, both financially, and in terms of the value of the curriculum**.

Being the curious, constantly learning person that I am, I’ve been partaking in
university curriculum from the best schools in the business (such as MIT) since
the beginning of…

So, I think your argument is mixing two goals, and in the process is
unreasonably dismissive of the larger potential value of a college/university
education. On the one hand there is the question of, “What experience is most
valuable for learning how to think, work and code for a lifetime”; and on the
other, “What’s the most efficient way to land an…

Functional programming has been an important computing paradigm since the
1930’s. I think it’s safe to say that functional programming is more than a fad.
What is frustrating is that university programs have treated it like a second
class citizen for the last 30 years or so, now, when distributed computation
makes it more important than ever…

An unpopular opinion but I agree 100%. After 7 semesters of school, if I knew
then what I know now I would probably just learn by myself.

Like you said, this is about the US. Here in Germany the higher education in CS
isn’t about getting n historical algorithms right. Some of them are mainly used
to sharp the scholar’s mindship for the underlying principles and mathematical
concepts.

Just need to find the right university. The University of Waterloo requires 6
semesters of internships for their Software Engineering students. Internships
are a great way to jumpstart a career because leaving for a new job is baked
right in. Going between work and school enables a greater appreciation of both.

Do you know when to use which? Do you think heapsort and mergesort will never be
used by engineers who know them all?

Because fast sorts are built into the languages and standard libs, and other
conditions are much more important for performance in almost all applications
(network, disk access, lazy vs eager evaluation, etc…), I have only needed to
use an alternate sort algorithm **once in the last 20 years**, because **sorting
happened to be the hot spot **in that…

2ality is awesome, I forgot about Dr. Axel. If in doubt, ask Dr. Axel…

I’m surprised there’s no one yelling because you stricly said “Start with
JavaScript”.

But thanks. You pretty much left links to everything I need to spend the next 2
months learning.

Since so many job postings are saying “CS degree strongly preferred”, won’t the
people with CS degrees get those interviews when others won’t (among all
applicants with 3+ years experience)?

> “won’t the people with CS degrees get those interviews when others won’t”

**No.** All that matters is whether or not you have experience building real
apps. If you can show “equivalent experience” in the form of actual apps built
(including hobby apps), you can get the job. If you’ve completed a bootcamp,
most hiring managers…

To second this, I do not even have a high school diploma for…well…reasons. Never
stepped in a collage classroom. But I have never had a problem landing an
interview and the subsequent offer that comes with it…I am at the point now
where I choose where to work, I interview the job more so than they interview
me.

It’s true that JavaScript is easy to learn, but to master it, you will need to
have a lot of patience. If you’ve learned any other programming language, it’s
good to start with JavaScript. But if you’ve already learned other programming
language (especially OOP with classical inheritance stuff), you have to unlearn
that stuff before learning JavaScript.

+1 for learning other languages. Some things just “click” in certain languages
which makes other languages easier to understand. Coming from C# I initially
found functions as “first class objects” in JS somewhat tricky. I could see how
useful and easy throwing functions about was — but I just couldn't think very
fluently about the typical patterns I…


https://medium.com/javascript-scene/learn-to-code-13-tips-that-could-save-you-years-of-effort-92ce799a3e1f
